Section 1 - Connecting to & Preparing Data 
1.	Which of the following is the best reason to create a saved data source as a  .TDS file 
a.	Those who wish to use the data do not have access to the underlying data. 
b.	You want to save the default field properties such as number formats and sort order. 
c.	You want to save a snapshot of the data that will not update even when the underlying data changes. 
d.	You need to apply an aggregation that takes too long when using a live connection. 
Correct answer is B. TDS files save the data source metadata, such as the connection information, default field formatting, and sort order. They do not save the data source itself, and hence you should use this format if everyone who will use the data source has access to the underlying file or database defined in the connection information. 

Documentation here: https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/export_connection.html  
2.	When creating a union between tables, what will happen if the field names do not match? 
a.	Tableau will return an error message, explaining that you must modify the tables so that all tables used in the union have the same field names. 
b.	Tableau will automatically merge the fields, combining fields with similar field names. 
c.	Fields in the union that do not have matching field names will contain null values. 
d.	Fields with non-matching field names will be dropped, so that the union will contain only those fields with matching field names 
Correct answer is C – if the field names do not match, the fields will be included in the UNION but will contain null values for the rows from the table that is missing the field. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/union.html  
3.	After setting up two data source connections, how can you create a blend? 
a.	Add at least one field from the primary data source to your view. Then, in the Data pane, click the data source that you want to designate as the secondary data source and click the broken link icon. 
b.	On the data sources pane, drag tables from both connections onto the canvas. Then click the venn diagram and select the blending fields. 
c.	On the data source page, double-click New Blend to set up the blend. Drag a table from the left pane to the blend dialog box. 
d.	Select Data, then Edit Relationships, tthen Select the secondary data source in the Secondary data source pane, select Custom in the relationships list, and then click the Add button.  
Correct answer is A. Editing the relationships will not by itself establish a blend. 

https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/multiple_connections.html  
4.	Which of the following uses a primary and secondary data source? 
a.	Cross-database joins 
b.	Unions 
c.	Aggregation 
d.	Blending 
Correct answer is D. Data blending involves a primary and secondary data source. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/multiple_connections.html  

5.	Union the Stocks 2010-2013 and Stocks 2014 tables, and then create a chart showing average Open by year and for each Company from 2010 to 2014. In which year was the average open for Biogen Idec closest to Amazon’s average open?  
a.	2011  
b.	2012  
c.	2013  
d.	2014 
Solution: D, 2014 
Create union of Stocks 2010-2013 and Stocks 2014 tables: 
This view shows average open by year and company. We can see Amazon and Biogen Idec are closest in 2014.  
  
6.	Blend the Southern Region table from the South_Superstore file with the Subcategory Profit Targets table from the Subcategory Profit Targets file. Add subcategory, AVG(Profit) and Profit Target to the view. For which of the following subcategories was average profit higher than the target? 
a.	Appliances 
b.	Art 
c.	Binders 
d.	Bookcases 
Correct Answer: A 
Add a connection to the South_Superstore, then add a new data source: 
Select Subcateogry Profit Targets   
From Southern Region, add Subcategory and Profits, Set profits to Average 
Select the Subcateogry Profit Targets dat source, and add Profit Target: 
  
7.	Inner join Southern_Region with Returns using Order ID. This will limit the data to only those orders which were returned by the customer. Create a chart that shows sales by year of order date.  In which year was the sales value of the returned items the lowest? 
a.	2013 
b.	2014 
c.	2015 
d.	2016 
Answer: A. 2013 
On the Data Source tab, create the Inner Join on Order ID 
Add Sales and YEAR(Order Date) to the view. SUM(Sales) is lowest in 2013. 
  
8.	Open the Flights data and assign the geographic role for Airport Code as airport. Add the airport code to the view and drag the Airport Name to the Label mark. Which airport shown on the map is closest to HartsfieldJackson Atlanta (ATL)? 
a.	Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport (CHA) 
b.	Charlotte Douglas International (CTL) 
c.	Orlando International (MCO) 
d.	George Bush Intercontinental (IAH) 
Answer: B - Charlotte Douglas International (CTL) is closest to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta 
  
#Section 2 - Exploring & Analyzing Data 
9.	In the Southern Region Superstore data,  the Product Category, Product Subcategory, and Product Name might be combined using which of the following: 
a.	Set 
b.	Group 
c.	Hierarchy 
d.	Parameter 
Correct Answer: C - Hierarchy. Hierarchies allow you combine similar fields while Groups and Sets combine values within a field. Parameters allow the user to change a value, which can then be used in calculations, filters, and reference lines. 

10.	Which chart type will best visualize the relationship between two continuous measures? a. Bar chart 
b.	Scatter Plot 
c.	Line Chart 
d.	Stacked Bar 
B – Scatter Plot. Scatter plots to visualize relationships between numerical variables. Bar charts to compare data across categories. Line charts compare numeric data over time. Stacked bar charts compare numeric data over two dimensions. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/help.html#buildexamples_scatter.html?Highlight=scatter  
 
11.	Which of the following is a table calculation? 
a.	SUM 
b.	TOTAL 
c.	AVG 
d.	STDEV 
B - Of these, only TOTAL is a table calculation: 
  
 
12.	You would like to a view that displays a filter allowing you to select the state, and use a Set to displaying the top 5 products with the greatest total sales within the selected state. What type of filter should you use to filter on the state? 
a.	Multiselect Filter 
b.	Dimension Filter 
c.	Context Filter 
d.	Wildcard Filter 
You would like to filter on the state, and then select the top 5 products with the greatest sales from within the selected state. Therefore, you need a filter which will execute before the Set. Dimension filters execute after sets, so they are the wrong choice. If you make the filter on the state a context filter, Tableau will filter on the state, and then the set will determine the top 5 products by sales within the selected state.  More detail here: https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/order_of_operations.html#DimtoCtxt  

13.	Bins can be created for which type of field? 
a.	Dimension 
b.	Discrete 
c.	Continuous measure 
d.	Date 
Answer is C. A bin can be created on a continuous measure or numeric dimension https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/calculations_bins.html   

14.	Using the Flights table, create a bar chart showing the average of Minutes of Delay per Flight broken down by Airport, and filtered by date to show only the last September, October, and November 2013. Which airport had the lowest average minutes of delay per flight between September and November? 
a.	Baltimore / Washington International 
b.	George Bush Intercontinental 
c.	Seattle/Tacoma International 
d.	Chicago/O’Hare International 
Answer: A - Baltimore / Washington International 
Add a filter for September, October, and November 2013. Add Minutes of Delay to the view, and change the aggregation type to average. Add Airport Name to the view. Sort the chart to make it easier to see which airport has the lowest average minutes of delay. 
   
15.	Using the Flights table, create a crosstab showing the sum of Flights broken out by ontime category and airport, then add grand totals to the view. Use a filter to exclude flights that were ontime. For Dallas/Fort Worth, what number of flights were not ontime, and what number were Delayed by Security? a. 54,692 and 53 
b.	1,001 and 650,751 
c.	72,489 and 51 
d.	45,677 and 93 
Correct Answer: A - 54,692 and 53 
Create a crosstab with Airport Name and Ontime Category, showing SUM of Number of Flights. You should see Dallas/Fort Worth has 54,692  not ontime, and  53 flight delayed by security. 
Exclude Ontime Flights: 
Create a crosstab: 
   
16.	Using the Flights data, create a line chart showing the average minutes of delay per flight by month. Create a filter for carrier name of US Airways. Which month saw the biggest decrease in average minutes of delay per flight compared with the previous month?  
a.	January 2013 
b.	February 2013 
c.	March 2013 
d.	April 2013 
Answer: C, March 2013 
Add Month(Date) to the column shelf and and AVG(Minutes of Delay) to the row shelf: 
Add a filter for US Airways: 
Your view should now looks like this: 
  
17.	Using the Stocks 2014 table, create a dual axis chart showing the daily Open and Close values. Use a filter to limit to filter on October 2014 and use a filter to limit the data to Biogen Idec. On which date was there the greatest difference between Open and Close 
a.	October 12th 
b.	October 15th 
c.	October 20th 
d.	October 13nd  Correct Answer: D, October 13nd  Add company filter: 
Add Month/Year filter: 
Add a calculation for the difference between open and close: 
Add date and the new calculation, then sort:   
 
18.	Using the Flights data, determine the average minutes of delay per flight by the month (using Date).  Using a table calculation, find the % difference in average minute of delay per flight between from June  2013 compared with May 2013. 
a.	14.11% 
b.	-8.2% 
c.	59.5% 
d.	60% 
Answer: A – 14.11% 
Determine the average minutes of delay per flight by the month:   
Use a table calculation to determine the % change compared with the previous month:   
You should now be able to see the % change in average minutes of delay from May to June: 
  
19. Analysts hope that Apple stock price will increase by 10% in 2015. Using the Stocks table, create a calculated field called 2015 High that multiplies the value of High by 1.1. Use MAX aggregation to determine the maximum value of New High for Apple Stock. 
a.	131.7 
b.	23,439 
c.	119.8 
d.	448.9 
Create a caclulated field called “New High”     
Add a filter for Apple:    
Add New High to the view:    
Change the calculation from SUM to MAX:    
View the MAX value of New High: 
  
Section 3 - Sharing Insights 
20. The most important items on a dashboard should be positioned where? a. Center 
b.	Upper Left 
c.	Upper Right 
d.	Bottom 
B – Upper Left. Place the most important view at the top of your dashboard, or in the upper left corner. When looking at a dashboard, your eye is usually drawn to that corner first. 21. You have a dashboard and you want to add a feature so that selecting an element on one of the worksheets on the dashboard causes a change on another worksheet in the same dashboard. What features will do this? (select all that apply) 
a.	Filter Action 
b.	Url Action 
c.	Highlight Action 
d.	Drilldown Action 
Answer: A & C. A filter action can filter items on another worksheet, and a highlight action can highlight items on another worksheet. 

22. What steps should you take to add a phone view to a dashboard? 
a.	Instruct the those viewing the dashboard on mobile to put “m.” in front of the dashboard URL to get the mobile-friendly view. 
b.	Select Layout, then adjust the dimensions until they are appropriate for a phone (750x1334) 
c.	On the “Show Me” menu, click the Phone icon 
d.	Select Device Preview,  then select Phone for Device Type, then click the button labeled “Add Phone Layout” 
Answer: D. You create a phone view by following the steps listed. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/dashboards_dsd_create.html  

#Understanding Tableau Concepts 

23.	You start with a blank worksheet and add a continuous field to the row shelf. How will this new field change your view? 
a.	It will add a horizontal axis 
b.	It will add a horizontal header 
c.	It will add a vertical axis 
d.	It will add a vertical header 
Answer: C - vertical axis 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/help.html#datafields_typesandroles.html?Highlight=discrete  

24.	You have a scatter plot showing sales on the x-axis and profit on the y-axis, with each dot representing a different product subcategory.  You want to show how the points on the scatter plot vary based on Net Profit, a third continuous variable.  Which would be most appropriate? (Select all that apply) a. Tooltip 
b.	Label 
c.	Size 
d.	Color 
Answer C & D: Size would be most appropriate, because with size it is clear that larger values are respresened by larger points on the plot. This is easier for the eye to process than understanding which color or size is associated with the larger values than it is to read a label or tooltip value on each point in the scatter plot. The Visual Analysis Best Practices Guidebook explains, “a rule of thumb is to put the most important data on the X- or Y- axis and less important data on color, size, or shape.” 

#Section 4 - Understanding Tableau Concepts 
25.	If you have bar chart with a single bar, but you want to subdivide that bar into multiple categories, what should you add to your view? 
a.	A measure 
b.	A dimension 
c.	A discrete field 
d.	A continuous field 
The answer is B – you need to add a dimension to your view to subdivide the bar. 

26.	Which of the following fields will have AGG in front of it when you add it to the view? 
a.	A calculated field with the formula SUM([Profit]) 
b.	A measure called Profit 
c.	A date field 
d.	A calculated field with the formula 5 * [Profit] 
Answer: A, since this is a measure that has an aggregation already built in, when you add it to the view you will see AGG in front of the field name 
 
27.	A histogram shows the distribution of ________ data by creating bins that are _________. 
a.	numeric, continuous 
b.	discrete, continuous 
c.	continuous, discrete 
d.	date, discrete 
Correct answer is C. A histogram uses bins to subdivide a continuous measure into a discrete bins. 

28.	Which of the following functions can be used on string to create a measure? 
a.	SUM 
b.	COUNTD 
c.	+ 
d.	DATEDIFF 
Answer B. Of these functions, only COUNTD will take a string and return a measure. 

29.	You have SUM([Minutes of Delay]) in your view. If aggregate measures is unchecked, what will the view show instead of SUM([Minutes of Delay])? 
a.	Minutes of Delay 
b.	ATTR([Minutes of Delay]) 
c.	AGG([Minutes of Delay]) 
d.	Minutes of Delay (bin) 
A – disaggregating will show the underlying values. The aggregation will be removed, so we will see just “Minutes of Delay” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/help.html#calculations_aggregation.html#DisAggData  

30. What field types are used in this view? 
A.	Discrete for the Date, continuous measure for % of Delayed Flights 
B.	Continuous for the x and y axis 
C.	String for the x-axis, continuous measure for the y-axis 
D.	String for the x-axis, continuous measure for the y-axis 
A. The date is discrete, because otherwise the line would not be segmented % of Delayed Flights is used as an axis, so it must be a continuous measure. 
 
#Q2#Connecting to & Preparing Data 

1.	Which of the following should be used if, for security purposes, you’d like users to enter their database credentials in order to access the workbook: 
a.	Live connection 
b.	Extract 
c.	Hyper 
d.	Packaged data source 
Correct answer is A – “If your organization enforces user-level permissions to databases, use a live connection for workbooks that connect to those databases. That way, users who interact with workbooks and data sources that require authentication will be prompted for credentials.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/guides/everybody-install/enus/everybody_admin_data.htm#tradeoffs-live-connection-and-extract  

2.	Which feature will allow you to show more relevant or descriptive dimension values in your view than what the original data provides? 
a.	field renaming 
b.	hierarchy 
c.	alias 
d.	group 
C	– “Aliasing is the alternative name that you can assign to a value in a dimension field. You can use aliases to rename specific values within a dimension. This can be useful when you want to show more relevant or descriptive dimension values in your view than what the original data provides.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/multipleconnections_edit_primary_aliases.htm  

3.	Which of the following is not a default property which can be set for a measure? 
a.	Number Format 
b.	Color 
c.	Aggregation 
d.	Sort 
D	– Sort is a default property for dimensions but not for measures. 

4.	This type of join will include all values from the left table: 
a.	Inner 
b.	Right 
c.	Left 
d.	Blend 
C – A left join will include all values from the left table.  https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/joining_tables.htm#jointypes  

5.	Left join Southern_Region with Returns using Order ID. Add Sales and Status to the view. What is the value for SUM(Sales) for Status returned? 
a.	40,980 
b.	35,407 
c.	356,315 
d.	5,769   
Add status and sales to the view: 
  
6.	Create a union of World Literacy Rate 1976 to 1991 and World Literacy Rate 1992 to 2016. What is the percent increase in the literacy rate from 1976 to 2016? 
a.	17.36% 
b.	20.12% 
c.	34.71% 
d.	25.17% 
Create the union: 
Add date to the sheet, and remove all but 1976 and 2016:  
Add the rate and the year to the view. Then do a % Difference table calculation:  
Use a table calculation to determine the difference between the 1976 rate and the 2016 rate: 
  
7.	Your data has a column which should be treated as a date, but when you change the data type to date you see a lot of null values or obviously incorrect dates like 12/30/1899.  What can you do next since the date conversion did not work? 
a.	Edit your computer’s date settings to that they correspond to the format of the date you’re trying to use in Tableau 
b.	Instead of setting the field to Date, set to Date & Time 
c.	Set the type back to string, then try date conversion functions like DateParse and Date 
d.	Switch the metadata grid, then right click the field and select “date format settings” 
If changing type to date doesn’t work, you should change the data type back to string and use a date parse function https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/data_dateparse.htm  
Exploring & Analyzing Data 

8.	You want to create a line chart showing the daily “Open” and “Close” values for a stock. The yaxis shows the opening stock price and the x-axis shows the date. What steps should you take? 
a.	Drag and drop the field “Close” to the x-axis. 
b.	Drag and drop the field “Close” to the y-axis. 
c.	Drag the field “Close” to the path mark. 
d.	Drag the field “Close” to the row shelf, then select the dual lines on the worksheet menu. 
https://kb.tableau.com/articles/howto/dual-axis-bar-chart-multiple-measures   
The correct answer is D.   
Example of dragging “Close” to the y-axis - Select “Dual Lines” on the show me menu 
Result: Dual axis chart. You see an axis on the right side as well as the left:  
Answer A is not correct because dragging Result to the y-axis will give you a chart with two lines, but not a dual axis chart.   
The chart below has two lines, but only one y-axis: 
   
9.	You would like the person using your dashboard to select the year, and based on the year to adjust the interest rate in some related calculated fields. You will like the year selection to limit the data in the view. What Tableau element should you to let the user select the interest rate? a. Dimension Filter 
b.	Context Filter 
c.	Parameter 
d.	Change Set values Dashboard Action 
Correct answer is C. A parameter will allow the user to set a value which you can then use in a calculated field. You can also use a parameter in a calculation, and then use that calculated field in a filter to limit the data in the view. 

10.	Which type of visualization is not typically effective in showing change over time? 
a. Bar Chart 
b.	Line Chart 
c.	Area Chart 
d.	Scatter Plot 
According to the tableau visual analysis guidebook, “Some of the best visualizations for showing trends over time are line charts, area charts, and bar charts.” A scatter plot does not show change over time as effectively. See the visual analysis guidebook https://www.tableau.com/learn/whitepapers/tableauvisual-guidebook. 
Also, here I have a line chart showing sales by order date and the scatter plot option is grayed out: 
  
11.	Which types of plots are most often used to visualize the distribution of a single continuous measure? (select all that apply) 
a.	Scatter Plot 
b.	Tree Maps 
c.	Box Plot 
d.	Histogram 
Correct answer is C & D - The box plot and histogram visualize the distribution of a continuous measure. 
“A histogram is a chart that displays the shape of a distribution. A histogram looks like a bar chart but groups values for a continuous measure into ranges, or bins.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-gb/buildexamples_histogram.htm 
“Use box plots, also known as box-and-whisker plots, to show the distribution of values along an axis.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/buildexamples_boxplot.htm 
Scatter plots are used to understand the relationship between two or more variables rather than a single measure. 
 
12.	A bullet chart combines a bar chart with: 
a.	Scatter plot 
b.	Filled bubbles 
c.	Reference lines 
d.	Circle views 
Correct answer is C – a bullet chart combines a bar chart with a reference line 

13.	Which of the following will result in an error 
a.	A calculation that includes more than one aggregation 
b.	Aggregation on a field that is already aggregated 
c.	A table calculation on a field that is already aggregated 
d.	An aggregation on a level of detail expression 
Correct answer is B. If you try to aggregate an aggregated field, you will get the error message saying that an aggregate cannot be further aggregated. 

14.	Using the Southern Region sheet of the South Superstore data, find the total sales value of items shipped in January and February 2014. 
a.	46,474 
b.	44,239 
c.	6,122 
d.	6,132 
  
  
15.	Using the Southern Region sheet of the South Superstore data, find the customer name with the largest number of unique order ids. 
a.	Christopher Martinez 
b.	Barry Gonzalez 
c.	Paul Prost 
d.	Sean Miller   
Add this and Customer name to the view. Sort descending: 
  
16.	Using the Southern Region sheet of the South Superstore data, which state bordering Mississippi had the highest Sales? 
a.	Arkansas 
b.	Tennessee 
c.	Alabama 
d.	Florida 
Add State and Sales to the view: 
Florida has higher sales that Tennessee, but it does not border Mississippi. 
If your computer is not set to the USA, you may need to do Map => Edit Locations and set the country to United States:  
  
17.	Which type of filter usually works best with date fields? 
a.	Slider filters 
b.	List filters 
c.	Checkboxes 
d.	Text search 
The Visual Analysis Best Practices explains, “Remember that slider filters are great for date and numerical values—while list filters are better for categorical data.” 
 
18.	A relative date filter works relative to: 
a.	A parameter or field you select when creating the filter 
b.	The anchor date 
c.	The data the workbook was created or updated 
d.	The current date when the workbook is viewed 
B – Relative date filters work relative to the anchor date. By default this will be the current date, but this can be changed:     
If you keep the default option, “Anchor relative to Today” then the relative date will work relative to the date when the workbook is viewed (answer D) but this can be changed.  
Documentation on relative dates: https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/qs_relative_dates.htm  

#Sharing Insights 
19.	Which of the following is true? 
a.	A dashboard cannot include a story, but a story can include a dashboard 
b.	A dashboard can include a story, but a story cannot include a dashboard 
c.	A dashboard can include a story, and a story can  include a dashboard 
d.	A dashboard cannot include a story, and a story cannot include a dashboard 
Here is a workbook with a dashboard and a story. On the dashboard, I do not see the option to add my story:   
But when I switch to Story 1, I see the option to add Dashboard 1
  
20.	Which of the following will create a dashboard action? 
a.	Click the “More Options” arrow on the worksheet included in the dashboard layout, then select “use as filter” 
b.	Click the “More Options” arrow on the worksheet included in the dashboard layout, then select “use as Filters” and select the filter that you’d like to apply to the whole dashboard 
c.	Click the “More Options” arrow on the worksheet included in the dashboard layout, then select “use as Filters” and select the filter that you’d like to apply to the whole dashboard. Then go to the filter menu, right click, and select “apply to all using this data source” 
d.	Click the “More Options” arrow on the worksheet included in the dashboard layout, then select “action,” add action, and Filter 
Correct answer is A. C will create a context filter, not a filter action. D is not the right choice because there is no action option in the “More Options” menu. 

21.	Which of the following mark types cannot be adjusted using the Size slider? a. Line 
b.	Pie 
c.	Bar 
d.	Area 
The Size of Marks button is disabled when the marks type is Area: 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/viewparts_marks_markproperties.htm#SizeProp  

22.	How would you change the font color of the tooltip? (Select all that apply) 
a.	Click on “color” in the marks area, select “tooltip” in the dropdown, and select the desired color. 
b.	Right-click on the view, select “Format” and select the dropdown next to tooltip. Then select the color. 
c.	Click on the tooltip button in the Marks area, highlight the text, and select the desired color using the dropdown 
d.	Right-click on the view, select “Format” and you will see several tabs in the formatting menu – “Sheets,” “Rows,” Columns” and “Tooltip.” Select the tootip tab and then use the formatting menu to select the color. 
Answers are B & C. The color button in the marks area will not show you a tooltip option, and there is no tooltip tab in the format menu. 
    
23.	Which of the following action types can be used to create proportional brushing? a. URL Action 
b.	Filter Action 
c.	Set Action 
d.	Sheet Action 
Answer is C. See https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/actions_sets.htm#Examples and https://www.tableau.com/about/blog/2018/8/how-doproportional-highlighting-set-actions-latest-tableau-beta-92168 for a demonstration of how a set action can use used to achieve proportional brushing. 
Understanding Tableau Concepts 
24. Which of the following describes the Measure Names field (select all that apply) 
a.	It is a Measure automatically created by Tableau 
b.	When you create a view with multiple measures on a single continuous axis, Tableau will automatically add Measure Names to the view. 
c.	When you add Measure Names to a view, all of the measure names appear as row or column headers in the view. The headers include each measure name. This feature becomes useful when you are working with a text table that shows multiple measures.  
d.	Measure Names is a system generated field that contains the names of all the measures in your Tableau workbook, including the system generated measures such as Latitude and Longitude. 
A is incorrect because Measure Name is a Dimension, not a value. 
D is incorrect because Measure Names does not include Latitude and Longitude. 
Explanation of Measure Names - https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/datafields_understanddatawindow_meavalues.htm#AboutMN  

25.	You add two fields to your Tableau view, “Profit” and “Average Profit.” When you add Profit to the view, you see a pill with the label, “SUM(Profit)” but when you add Average Profit to the view, you see a pill with the label, “AGG(Average Profit).” Why does one field have SUM and another AGG? 
a.	Each field has default properties, including default aggregation. Profit had SUM set as its default aggregation, while Average Profit had AGG set as its default. 
b.	AGG is applied by default to discrete fields, while SUM is applied to continuous fields. Average Profit was set to discrete, while Profit was set to continuous. 
c.	AGG is applied by default to dimensions, while SUM is applied to measures. Average Profit is a dimension, while Profit is a measure. 
d.	AGG indicates that the “Average Profit” already includes some type of aggregation. “Profit” does not include aggregation, so an aggregate function is applied when the field is added to the view. 
The correct answer is D. When a calculated field which already includes aggregation is added to a view with aggregated measures, AGG indicates that the field already includes aggregation. Measures without aggregation will be aggregated when they are added to the view.  

26.	Which of the following field types will create a color palette? 
a.	Measure 
b.	Dimension 
c.	Continuous 
d.	Discrete 
A continuous field will create a color gradient, while a discrete field will create a color palette. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/viewparts_marks_markproperties_color.htm#Categorical_Palettes  

27.	Examine the following view and describe the most likely field type for Order Priority and Sum(Sales)   
a.	Order Priority is a discrete measure, and Sum(Sales) is a discrete dimension. 
b.	Order Priority is a discrete measure, and Sum(Sales) is a continuous measure. 
c.	Order Priority is a discrete dimension, and Sum(Sales) is a continuous dimension. 
d.	Order Priority is a discrete dimension, and Sum(Sales) is a discrete measure. 
Correct answer is D – Order priority and SUM(Sales) both create headers, so both are discrete. SUM(Sales) is a measure, since you cannot take the sum of a dimension. Order Priority is a string, so it must be a dimension. 

28.	You connect Tableau to a Excel file which includes a column that has mostly numeric data, but has a few date and text values mixed in. Tableau set the data type for this field as Number. 
What happens to the date and text values when the data is imported to Tableau? 
a.	The date and text values are both set to null 
b.	The date and text values are both set to zero 
c.	The date values are set to the number of days since 1/1/1900 and the text value is set to null.  
d.	The date values are set to the number of days since 1/1/1900 and the text value is set to zero.  
The correct answer is C: when the data type is mapped as numbers, text is treated as null while dates are treated as the number of days since 1/1/1900. See the section titled, “Mixed data types in data from files” here: https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/datafields_typesandroles_datatypes.htm  

29.	Which field types are more common? 
a.	Discrete dimension, continuous measure 
b.	Continuous dimension, continuous measure 
c.	Discrete dimension, discrete measure 
d.	Continuous dimension, discrete measure 
In Tableau, it is more common to have discrete dimensions and continuous measures, although fields can also be set as continuous dimensions and discrete measure.  
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/datafields_typesandroles.htm#About  

30. The visualization shows ship date and order date. Are the dates discrete or continuous? 
a. Ship date is discrete, order date is continuous 
b.	Ship date is discrete, order date is discrete 
c.	Ship date is continuous, order date is discrete 
d.	Ship date is continuous, order date is continuous 
Correct answer is A. Blue pills indicates discrete and creates headers, while green pill indicates continuous and creates axis. 
  
#Q3


#Connecting to & Preparing Data 
1.	Which of the following is an example of metadata that can be managed in Tableau? Select all that apply. 
a.	The data type of the data in the source database 
b.	Which fields are hidden x
c.	The number of rows in the data 
d.	The default aggregation for a field x
Renaming fields and changing the defaults for formatting or aggregation are metadata management tasks that can be handled in Tableau.  

You can change the data type of a field in Tableau, but you cannot change the underlying data via metadata management… the data type and the number of rows in the data in the source system cannot be changed by Tableau. The documentation explains, “Changes that you make in the metadata area of the data source do not modify your underlying data.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/howto_connect.htm#manage-metadata 
2.	Which file type can include an extract? Select all that apply. 
a.	Data Source (.tds) 
b.	Packaged Data Source (.tdsx) x
c.	Packaged Workbooks (.twbx)  x
d.	Workbooks (.twb)  
Data source files do not contain the actual data 
Packaged data source files and packaged workbooks can both include extracts. 
Workbook files can connect to extracts, but they do not themselves include extract. 
See this link for further info.  

3.	Which of the following is most likely to reduce the size of the extract?   
a.	Selecting “Multiple Table” rather than “Single Tables” x 
b.	Using the incremental refresh option 
c.	Materialize calculations with the “Compute Calculations Now” option  
d.	Removing an filter 
The Tableau documentation explains that the Multiple Tables option can potentially improve performance and help reduce the size of the extract file. When tables are joined, a new row is created each time the join criteria are satisfied, so that the resulting join can have many more rows than were in the original tables. In this case, storing the tables individually (using the Multiple Tables option) will take up less space.  
Using the incremental refresh option should not impact the size of the extract – it should only impact whether the refresh works by removing the old extract completely and recreating it, or whether it adds new rows to the existing extract. https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/enus/extracting_refresh.htm#configure-an-incremental-extract-refresh 
Materializing calculations may reduce the time to open the workbook since the results of the calculations will be saved in the extract, but will not reduce the workbook size. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/extracting_data.htm#about-the-computecalculations-now-option-for-extracts 

Removing a filter is likely to increase the size of the extract. 
4.	If a Tableau workbook does not include the fields  Latitude (generated) and Longitude (generated) this indicates which of the following: 
a.	The workbook does not include a map 
b.	The workbook does not include any fields with a geographic role of state, city, country, or zip code 
c.	The workbook does not include custom geocoding 
d.	All locations are ambiguous or unknown 
It doesn’t matter whether your workbook contains a map, Latitude (generated) and Longitude 
(generated) are created when fields are assigned geographic roles. However, this will not happen if your data already has non-generated Longitude and Latitude. Here is an example:   
In this example, Latitude and Longitude are the only fields with geographic roles, and so, Latitude (generated) and Longitude (generated) do not appear. If we set a geographic role for Country, Latitude (generated) and Longitude (generated) will appear. 

5.	Union the Stocks 2010-2013 and Stocks 2014 tables, and then create a table showing the minimum value for Low stock price for each company in each quarter. Following Q2 of 2013, which company increased its minimum Low stock price for the most quarters in a row? 
a.	Amazon, minimum low increased for five quarters in a row 
b.	Biogen, minimum low increased for six quarters in a row 
c.	Biogen, minimum low increased for five quarters in a row 
d.	Apple, minimum low increased for six quarters in a row 
 Apple’s minimum low price increased for six consecutive quarters after  Q2 of 2013:    
 
6.	Blend the Southern Region table from the South_Superstore file with the Targets table from the South_Superstore  file. Add subcategory, SUM(Sales) and Sales Target to the view. For which of the following subcategories did sales meet the target value? In other words, when was SUM([Sales]) greater than SUM([Sales Target])?  
a.	Binders 
b.	Bookcases 
c.	Supplies 
d.	Tables 
Add both Southern Region and Targets:     
Create a new worksheet. If you try to add Sales from the SuperStore worksheet and Sales Target from the Target worksheet, you will get a warning popup saying that you need a relationship with the primary data source.     
Set up the relationships as shown below:  
Check the results and notice that only Binders has a value that is higher than the target     
 
7.	Create an inner join to combine the Southern Region worksheet with the Rewards customer worksheet. The join field should be Customer ID. What segment had the highest sales for rewards customers? Within that segment, which customer had the highest sales? 
a.	Top segment is Home Office, and the top customer in that segment is Alejandro 
Ballentine 
b.	Top segment is Consumer, and the top customer in that segment is Sanjit Engle 
c.	Top segment is Corporate, and the top customer in that segment is Anna Häberlin 
d.	Top segment is Consumer, and the top customer in that segment is Shahid Collister 
Join the worksheets:   
Create a hierarchy with segment and customer name   
Add sales and segment. Consumer has the highest sales   
Expand the hierarchy   
Nested sort   
Shahid Collister is the rewards customer with the highest sales in the Consumer segment   
Exploring & Analyzing Data 

8. Which visualization always represents a measure using color? 
a.	Pie chart 
b.	Scatter plot 
c.	Combo chart 
d.	Highlight table x 
A highlight table is represents a measure using color. The other options may or may not use color to represent a measure. 
https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/buildexamples_highlight.htm 

9.	You would like to divide your customers into two categories – those with sales above a certain threshold and those with sales below that threshold. Which of the following tools will allow you to do this? Select all that apply. 
a.	Hierarchy 
b.	Parameter 
c.	Set x 
d.	Calculation x
You can do this with a set   
Or with a calculated field: 
Simply adding a parameter will not change the view. You’d need to use the parameter as part of a calculation or filter to change the view. And a hierarchy will not help with this unless you already have a field that divides into those above or below 2000. 

10.	Which of the following does Tableau automatically put into a hierarchy? 
a.	Date fields (year > month > day) 
b.	Geographic fields (country > city > state) 
c.	Field with field name containing the keyword “sub-” (product category, product subcategory) 
d.	Numeric fields (Millions > Thousands > Ones) 
The tableau documentation explains, “When you connect to a data source, Tableau automatically separates date fields into hierarchies so you can easily break down the viz. You can also create your own custom hierarchies. For example, if you have a set of fields named Region, State, and County, you can create a hierarchy from these fields so that you can quickly drill down between levels in the viz.” https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/qs_hierarchies.htm 

11.	Which of the following can you use to create a calculated field that shows the change from the prior month total? 
a.	An aggregate calculation 
b.	A table calculation x
c.	A basic calculation 
d.	A subtraction calculation 
A table calculation can show the difference between the current and prior month. First we have a view showing the total sales by month:   
Then we add the table calculation to show difference from the prior month: 
  
12.	In which year or years is SUM(Profit) greater than SUM(Sales)?   
a.	2013, 2014, and 2016 
b.	2014 
c.	All of the above 
d.	None of the above 
The two measures shown here are using different axes that are not synchronized. The axis for Sales is shown on the right side, while the axis for Profit is shown on the left side. SUM(Sales) is above 70K for all years shown, while SUM(Profit) is below 18K for all years shown.  

13.	The chart below has the value for one of the average reference lines highlighted in the tooltip, with a value of 19,883.  What does this average line represent?  
a.	The average values of sales for all sub-categories in the office supplies category 
b.	The average values of sales for all product categories 
c.	The average values of sales for  Binders, Paper, and Supplies 
d.	The average values of sales for  Binders, Paper, Supplies and Chairs 
The reference line shows the average values of sales for the selected subcategories within the current pane, which in this case is Office Supplies.  If you unselect Chairs you will notice the value does not change: 
  
14.	A histogram must include which of the following? (select all that Apply) 
a.	Bin  x
b.	Dimension 
c.	Count x
d.	Count Distinct 
A histogram always bins data and uses the COUNT (also shown as CNT) function to count the number of occurrences within the bin: https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/buildexamples_histogram.htm 
  
15. If you are creating a geographic map with cities, but some of the locations are showing as ambiguous, how might you correct this? 
a.	Add a field called “Street Name” to the view 
b.	Add Latitude (generated) and Longitude (generated) to the view. 
c.	Add a field called “State” to the view  x
d.	In the Edit Locations dialog box, click on one of the Ambiguous cells to match a known location to your unknown data. When you click on an unrecognized cell, a search box appears. As you begin typing in the search box, Tableau generates a list of possible locations. Select a location from the list. 
When you see that a city is ambiguous that means it exists in multiple states or countries, and so Talbeau doesn’t know which state or country to map it to. For example, there is a Rome in Italy, but also a less-well known city also called Rome, New York in the USA https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rome%2C_New_York.  
Tableau does not map streets, so including street name will not resolve the ambiguity. Adding Latitude (generated) and Longitude (generated) will not resolve ambiguous locations because unless Tableau has more information it cannot determine which state or country the city should go in. Editing the location will help for misspelled or unrecognized locations, but not for ambiguous locations. 
Adding State might resolve the ambiguity.  For example, if the city is Rome and we add New York, Tableau will know that the city is not Rome in Italy but rather Rome in New York state. https://onlinehelp.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/maps_editlocation.htm 
Answer D is not correct because the Edit Location Dialog Box requires a latitude and longitude to resolve the ambiguity: 
  
16.	Using the Southern Region worksheet of the South SuperStore data, looking just at orders placed in 2014, what percent of the total sales comes from the Home Office segment? a. 5.67% 
b.	18.97% 
c.	25.37% 
d.	31.12% 
  
17.	Using the Southern Region worksheet from the South Superstore file, find the top 10 products by sales in the home office segment. Which of the following products is in the top 10? 
a.	Samsung Galaxy Mega 6.3 
b.	GBC DocuBind TL300 Electric Binding System 
c.	Iceberg Mobile Mega Data/Printer Cart 
d.	Cubify CubeX 3D Printer Triple Head Print 
Create set:   
Use the set as a filter.  
Add Home Office as a filter, and add it to the context so that the filter executes before the set. Setting “Segment: Home office” as a context filter means that Tableau will first limit the data to Home Office, and then find the top 10 products by sales. 
    
18.	Using the Southern Region data on the South Superstore file, create a histogram showing the number of Sales using Sales Bins of $500. Which bins have negative total profit? (Select all that apply) 
a.	0 
b.	500 
c.	1000 
d.	1500 
e.	2000 
f.	2500 
g.	3000 
h.	3500 
i.	4000 
Create histogram with profit   
Set the bin size:  
Drag SUM(Profit) to Color:   
Mouse over the bins to see which have negative profit 
    
#Sharing Insights 

19.	Your view has a histogram showing the distribution of Sales. You’d like to use a color gradient to shade the bars according to the value of Profit. You drag profit to the color mark. How would you adjust the colors so that all negative values are shown in one color and all positive values are shown in a second color? 
a.	Click the colors mark, select edit colors, and check center on zero and switch the dropdown from continuous to discrete color gradient. 
b.	Click on the quantitative legend and select format legend. Select a diverging palette and stepped color. 
c.	Click the arrow on the colors mark, select edit colors, select a diverging palette from the dropdown and check stepped color with 2 steps and check center on zero. x 
d.	Click the colors mark, switch to a palette with two colors and check discrete color. 
  
20.	For which of the following is it not possible to adjust the size of the marks? 
a.	Bar chart 
b.	Tree map 
c.	Pie chart 
d.	Heat maps 
Try adjusting size on a tree map and you will see it is not an option:   
If you look at the other visualizations listed, you will see that you can edit the mark size: 
    
21.	Editing the font at the worksheet level applies the changes you make to all text fields in view except for which of the following? (select all that apply) 
a.	Header 
b.	Axis 
c.	Caption 
d.	Tooltip x
Editing the font at the worksheet level applies the changes you make to all text fields in view except the Tooltip fields. Try it yourself to confirm, and also look at the example below where I’ve changed the font for the workbook but the tooltip is unchanged. 
If you want to change the tooltip, you need to set the font using the highlighted box or click on the tooltip card and edit:   
   
22.	You have a dashboard containing multiple worksheets. One of the worksheets in the dashboard has a scroll bar. Which of the following steps can you take to remove the scroll bar?   
a.	Right click on the scroll bar and select remove. 
b.	Click the more options arrow, select fit, and select fit height. x
c.	Click the more options arrow, select font, and use the dropdown to decrease the font size to reduce the size of the worksheet. 
d.	Right click on the worksheet name on the dashboard pane, select fit, and then select entire view. 
There is no “remove” option, so choice “a is not correct. 
If you try “fit height” you will see that this adjusts the size so that the scrollbar no longer shows. 

23.	Which of the following describes the layout of the dashboard below? 
a. Tiled layout with the legend floating 
b.	Floating layout with the legend tiled 
c.	Floating layout for all elements 
d.	Tiled layout for all elements 
The legend is overlapping the Profit worksheets, which is only possible because it is set as floating.   
However, the layout of the dashboard overall is set to tiled. You can see this because the Tiled button is selected. 

#Understanding Tableau Concepts 

24.	If you drag a field called Sales to the filter area, and you do not get a menu like the one shown below, but are immediately taken to the filter menu, what does this indicate about Sales?   
a.	It is set as a measure 
b.	It is set as a dimension 
c.	It is set as discrete 
d.	It is set as continuous 
But if it is set as a dimension, you will be taken immediately to a filter menu. If Sales is a discrete dimension, the filter menu will look like this:   
If it is a continuous dimension, the filter menu will look like this:   
But in either case, if the field is set as a dimension then you only have the option to filter on the rowlevel values, not on the aggregated values. 

25.	In this view, which field is continuous and which is discrete? 
a.	Sales is discrete and Profit is discrete 
b.	Sales is continuous and Profit is discrete 
c.	Sales is discrete and Profit is continuous 
d.	Sales is continuous and Profit is continuous 
Profit has a color  

26.	A line chart is broken into separate sections by year. What does this indicate about the date used in the line chart? 
a.	The date is a continuous dimension 
b.	The date is a continuous measure 
c.	The date is a discrete measure 
d.	The date is a discrete dimension x
Here is an example with date as a discrete dimension: 
Also, in the show me menu you see that lines (discrete) are divided, while lines (continuous) are not divided: 
  
27.	Which of the following will increase the granularity of the view? 
a.	Adding a dimension to the marks area 
b.	Adding a measure to the marks area 
c.	Adding a dimension as a filter x
d.	Adding a measures as a filter 
Adding a dimension to the marks area will increase the granularity of the view 

28.	Profit and Sales are continuous measures in the workbook. Order ID is a dimension. Which of the following will most likely not have further aggregation applied when it is added to the view? 
a.	{FIXED [Order ID] : max([Sales])} 
b.	SUM([Sales]) x
c.	[Sales] – [Profit] 
d.	Year([Order Date]) 
{FIXED [Order ID] : max([Sales])} is a level of detail calculation, and so it is not yet aggregated   
The calculated field Year([Order Date]) will by default be a measure, so it will be aggregated when added to the view. 
SUM([Sales]) is already aggregated, so it will not be further aggregated when added to the view. Instead Tableau will use AGG([Field Name]) to represent the fact that the field is already aggregated: 
The calculated field [Sales] – [Profit] is a measure, but is not yet aggregated. It will be aggregated when it is added to the view. 

29.	Your view has a numeric field set as a discrete measure and a dimension. Which of the following visualizations can you create with these fields? (select all that apply) 
a.	Line chart 
b.	Text tables x 
c.	Highlight table 
d.	Histogram 
Because you have a discrete measure rather than a continuous measure, the visualizations available are more limited. The only option that is not greyed out it text table: 
  
30.	Which of the following fields is most likely to be a dimension? 
a.	Unique Order Count 
b.	Sales (bin) x
c.	Sales 
d.	Measure Values 
The Tableau documentation explains, “When you create bins from a measure you create a new 
dimension” https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/calculations_bins.htm 
  

